# An explanation of Generalised Linear Models
## With a focus on the maths



I realised I didn't understand the maths behind GLMs. So I decided to try and write an explanation suitable for twitter in order to teach myself. Here is the base teaching material. At some point I will put it up as a blog or something.


<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-partner="tweetdeck"><p>Just been told that the best way to learn is to teach. So I might try and explain the maths behind GLM on twitter over the next few days.</p>&mdash; Stats for bios (@statsforbios) <a href="https://twitter.com/statsforbios/statuses/473482177276297217">June 2, 2014</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>


## This repo

In this repo are the files I've been using to write the explanation. 

glmExplanation.txt is where I write my draft tweets and generally plan out what I'm doing.

[glmExplanation.R](glmExplanation.R) is where most of the interesting stuff is.

It heavily uses the package [tikzdevice](http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/tikzDevice/index.html). This allows added latex formatted text to graphics made in R. The output of these figures are a `*.tex` file that then need compiling with `pdflatex` etc. There might be problems here as it requires the `standalone` document class which I vaguely remember having problems getting (on Ubuntu). If you want to run any of this, just let me know and I'll try and point you in the right direction.

Any files that are generated by glmExplanation.R are not added to this repo. So any other *.tex files etc. have been written seperately.

## License

Feel free to use any of this without attributation. Absolutely no restrictions. If you wanted to let me know that you've used it, I'd be interested to see what people are doing. I'll write a proper github license file at some point.

